ITEM 1.
BUSINESS
Overview

Google is a global technology leader focused on improving the ways people connect with information. We aspire to build products and provide services that improve the lives of billions of people globally. Our mission is to organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful. Our innovations in web search and advertising have made our website a top internet property and our brand one of the most recognized in the world. Our Google segment generates revenues primarily by delivering relevant, cost-effective online advertising. Businesses use our AdWords program and AdSense program to promote their products and services with advertising on both Google-owned properties and publishers' sites across the web.
Our Motorola Mobile segment is focused on mobile wireless devices and related products and services. In January 2014, we entered into an agreement with Lenovo Group Limited (Lenovo), a Hong Kong corporation, providing for the disposition of our Motorola Mobile segment. The transaction is expected to close in 2014.
Our business is primarily focused around the following key areas: search and display advertising, the Android operating system platform, consumer content through Google Play, enterprise, commerce and hardware products.
We were incorporated in California in September 1998 and reincorporated in Delaware in August 2003. Our headquarters are located at 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway, Mountain View, California 94043, and our telephone number is (650) 253-0000. We completed our initial public offering in August 2004 and our Class A common stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “GOOG.”
On January 30, 2014, we announced that our board of directors had approved a distribution of shares of our Class C capital stock as a dividend to our stockholders with a dividend record date of March 27, 2014 and a dividend payment date of April 2, 2014. On the first trading day expected to be April 3, 2014, Class C will be listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol "GOOG" and Class A will be listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol "GOOGL."
2013 Corporate Highlights
•
Android - Our Android operating system continues to grow with more than a billion Android devices activated globally as of September 2013.
•
Google Play - Google Play is an entirely cloud-based, digital entertainment store with more than a million apps and games plus millions of songs and books and thousands of movies that our users can find, enjoy and share on their computer, phone or tablet. Our new music subscription service, All Access, lets people listen to more than 20 million songs for $9.99 a month on any device.
•
Chromebooks and Chrome - Chromebooks are computers that are built for the way people work and live today. Chromebooks, like the Chrome browser, are built around the core tenets of speed, simplicity, and security. Today, eight of the top computer manufacturers are making Chromebooks, and Chromebooks are used in more than 5,000 schools. Chrome has made browsing the web simpler, speedier and safer for more than 750 million users around the world.
•
Chromecast - To help make it easy to bring users’ favorite online entertainment to the biggest screen in their house - the TV - we introduced Chromecast. Chromecast is a small and affordable device that users simply plug into their high-definition (HD) TV and it allows users to use their phone, tablet or laptop to "cast" online content to their TV screen. It works with Netflix, YouTube, Google Play Movies & TV, Google Play Music, HBO Go, Hulu Plus and Pandora. With Chromecast, we wanted to create an easy solution that works for everyone, for every TV in the house.
•
Nexus - We launched Nexus 5, our newest smartphone, in October 2013, that features an intelligently simple design that is precision-built from strong materials. It comes in black, white and red and has a 5” HD display, Snapdragon 800 processor, 4G/LTE and built-in wireless charging. In July 2013, we also launched a refreshed Nexus 7 tablet. The thinner, lighter and faster Nexus 7 delivers the perfect mix of power and portability. It features the world’s sharpest 7" tablet screen - putting over 2.3M pixels in the palm of each user’s hand.
•
Google Now - We continue to improve Google Now, which brings users information they want, when they need it. In 2013, we added a number of new cards for car rentals, concert tickets, commute sharing, NCAA football

3
Table of Contents

and new reminders, as well as improved public transit and updated TV cards, all appearing automatically throughout the day on any device at the moment users need them.
•
Ads - We introduced Enhanced Campaigns in February 2013 as a new way for advertisers to more easily create campaigns that run across multiple devices in AdWords. In addition, we launched Estimated Total Conversions, which helps our advertisers measure the full influence of their online campaigns as users move across multiple screens.
On January 29, 2014, we entered into an acquisition agreement with Lenovo to sell our Motorola Mobile segment. Google will retain the vast majority of Motorola Mobile's patent portfolio, which will be licensed back to Motorola Mobile for its continued operations. Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, Lenovo will acquire Motorola Mobile for total consideration of (i) $660 million in cash, subject to adjustments for working capital, deferred revenue and net debt, (ii) $750 million in Lenovo ordinary shares, based on the Lenovo share price at closing and (iii) a $1.5 billion interest free, three-year prepayable promissory note. We expect the transaction to close in 2014.
Search
Google Search continues to evolve and improve as more information comes online, and as people increasingly look to their mobile devices for answers throughout the day. While on the go, users can now ask questions of the Google Search app on Android and iOS in natural language and get answers - "Where’s my package? Do I need a jacket this weekend? Who built the Eiffel Tower? What year was it constructed?"
To enable this, we've expanded and improved our Knowledge Graph, which allows users to search for things, people or places that Google knows about, and built systems that recognize speech accurately and understand natural language. As described above, we are also making Google Now more useful, adding more kinds of cards that help with everything from car rentals, to concert tickets, to commute sharing, to reminders users can set for a specific place - so, for example, users can say "Remind me to pick up milk when I get to Shop Rite," and they will get a reminder when they get to the store.
In addition, we are constantly improving and adding to our products and services, to provide users with more relevant results so that users find what they are looking for faster. We also offer Product Listing Ads, which include richer product information, such as product image, price, and merchant information, without requiring additional keywords or ad text.
Advertising
The goal of AdWords, our primary auction-based advertising program, is to deliver ads that are so useful and relevant to search queries or web content that they are a form of information in their own right. With AdWords, advertisers create simple text-based ads that appear beside related search results or web content on our websites and on thousands of partner websites in our Google Network, which is the network of third parties that use our advertising programs to deliver relevant ads with their search results and content. Most of our AdWords customers pay us on a cost-per-click basis, which means that an advertiser pays us only when a user clicks on one of its ads. We also offer AdWords on a cost-per-impression basis that enables advertisers to pay us based on the number of times their ads appear on our websites and our Google Network Members’ websites as specified by the advertiser.
Our AdSense program enables websites that are part of the Google Network to deliver ads from our AdWords advertisers that are relevant to the search results or content on their websites. We share the majority of the revenues generated from these ads with the Google Network Members that display the ads. The AdSense program enables advertisers to extend the reach of their ad campaigns, improves our partners’ ability to generate revenue from their content, and delivers relevant ads for their users.
As consumers increasingly live their lives across multiple screens, we introduced enhanced campaigns in AdWords to help advertisers big and small create relevant campaigns across all devices more easily. All of the more than one million AdWords advertisers are now using this new system, and the feedback we have gotten from marketers has been very positive.
Display advertising comprises the videos, text, images, and other interactive ads that run across the web on computers and mobile devices, including smart phones and handheld computers such as netbooks and tablets. The Google Display Network provides advertisers services related to the delivery of display advertising across publishers participating in our AdSense program, publishers participating in the DoubleClick Ad Exchange, and Google-owned sites such as YouTube and Google Finance.

4
Table of Contents

Through our DoubleClick advertising technology, we provide to publishers, agencies, and advertisers the ad serving technology, which is the infrastructure that enables billions of ads to be served each day across the web. Our DoubleClick Ad Exchange creates a real-time auction marketplace for the trading of display ad space. We aim to simplify display advertising so it is easier for advertisers and publishers to manage campaigns across different screens and formats.
In addition, YouTube provides a range of video, interactive, and other ad formats for advertisers to reach their intended audience. YouTube’s video advertising solutions give advertisers a way to promote their content to the YouTube community, as well as to associate with content being watched by their target audience. YouTube also offers analytic tools to help advertisers understand their audience and derive general business intelligence. In the past year, YouTube has experienced strong growth in mobile viewers and has established key partnerships with content companies to help monetize mobile video.
Consumer Content and Platforms
Android. Working closely with the Open Handset Alliance, a business alliance of more than 75 technology and mobile companies, we developed Android, a free, fully open source mobile software platform that any developer can use to create applications for mobile devices and any handset manufacturer can install on a device. We believe Android will drive greater innovation and choice in the mobile device ecosystem, and provide consumers with a more powerful mobile experience.
Chromebook, Chrome, and Chromecast. As mentioned above, we launched several new hardware products this year including multiple Chromebooks, Nexus 5 (smartphone), Nexus 7 (7" tablet), and Chromecast (device allowing the consumer to "cast" online content to their TV screen), all of which received extremely positive user feedback.
Google+. Google+ allows users to share online just like users do in the real world, sharing different things with different people. As of October 2013, we had 540 million 30-day active users across our Google properties.
Google Play. Google Play is our digital entertainment store for apps, music, books and movies. We also launched our All Access music service this year which allows users to listen to our vast music library. This year we brought Google Play to more platforms so Play Music, Play Movies and Play Books can now be enjoyed on the iPhone and iPad, in addition to Android devices.
Google Drive. Google Drive is a place where users can create, share, collaborate, and keep all of their stuff. Google Docs is built right into Google Drive so users can work with others in real time on documents, spreadsheets and presentations and users’ files go everywhere they do. When users change a file on the web, on their computer, or on their mobile device, the file updates on every device where users have installed Google Drive.
Google Wallet. Google Wallet is a virtual wallet that securely stores users’ credit and debit cards, offers, and rewards cards. Users can tap their phone to pay in-store using Google Wallet anywhere contactless payments are accepted. Users can also easily pay online and on their mobile devices at participating merchant sites and apps using Google Wallet. People can also easily send money to their friends through Gmail or through the Google Wallet app.
Enterprise
With Google's Enterprise products, we help users work the way they live by enhancing our consumer products used by billions with the features and controls their business needs to be productive, innovative and successful. These tools such as Google Apps (which includes Gmail, Google Drive, Calendar, Google Sites, and more) are built to let people work anywhere, anytime, on any device, without loss of security or control. We also provide versions of our Google Maps Application Programming Interface (API) for businesses (including fully interactive Google Maps for public and internal websites), as well as Google Earth Enterprise (a behind-the-company-firewall software solution for imagery and data visualization).
We now also offer infrastructure and cloud services to developers and businesses with Google Cloud Platform. This suite of services includes a Platform as a Service (PAAS) offering called Google App Engine, storage through Google Cloud Storage, real time analytics through Google BigQuery, Structured Query Language (SQL) through Google Cloud SQL, and Infrastructure as a Service (IAAS) via Google Compute Engine.
Motorola
The Motorola Mobile segment is focused on mobile wireless devices and related products and services and generates revenues primarily by selling hardware products. In January 2014, we entered into an agreement with

5
Table of Contents

Lenovo providing for the disposition of our Motorola Mobile segment.
Research
We continue to develop new products and services and to enhance our existing ones through research and product development and the licensing and acquisition of third-party businesses and technology. Our product development philosophy is to launch innovative products early and often, and then iterate rapidly to make those products even better. We often post early-stage products at test locations online or directly on Google.com. We then use data and user feedback to decide if and how to invest further in those products.
Our research and development expenses were $5.2 billion, $6.8 billion, and $8.0 billion in 2011, 2012, and 2013, respectively, which included stock-based compensation expense of $1.1 billion, $1.3 billion, and $1.7 billion, respectively. We expect to continue to invest in building the employee and systems infrastructure needed to support the development of new products and services and to improve existing ones.
Intellectual Property
We rely on a combination of intellectual property laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We have registered, and applied for the registration of, U.S. and international trademarks, service marks, domain names, and copyrights. Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain of our proprietary technology. Over time, we have assembled a portfolio of patents, trademarks, service marks, copyrights, domain names, and trade secrets covering our products and services. Our proprietary technology is not dependent on any single patent or copyright or groups of related patents or copyrights. We believe the duration of our patents is adequate relative to the expected lives of our products. Although we rigorously protect our proprietary technology, any significant impairment of, or third-party claim against, our intellectual property rights could harm our business or our ability to compete.
Sales and Support
We continue to develop and grow our sales and support infrastructure. We have over 85 offices in over 50 countries, the large majority of which include sales people. Our global sales and support infrastructure has specialized teams across vertical markets. We bring businesses into our advertising network through direct, remote, and online sales channels, using technology and automation wherever possible to improve our customers’ experience and to grow our business cost-effectively. Our direct advertising and sales teams focus on building relationships with the largest advertisers and leading internet companies. We have built a multi-product sales force, with teams selling campaigns that include search and display (including video) that appear on multiple devices used by consumers.
We provide customer service to our advertiser base through our global support organization. Our global support organization concentrates on helping our advertisers and Google Network Members get the most out of their relationship with us.
No individual customer or groups of affiliated customers represented more than 10% of our revenues in 2011, 2012, or 2013.
Government Contracts
No material portion of our business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the U.S. government.
Marketing
Google’s global brand is well known. We believe that building a trusted, highly recognized brand begins with providing high-quality products and services that make a notable difference in people’s lives. Our marketing, promotional, and public relations activities are designed to promote Google’s brand image and differentiate it from competitors.
Competition
Our business is characterized by rapid change and converging, as well as new and disruptive, technologies. We face formidable competition in every aspect of our business, particularly from companies that seek to connect people with information on the web and provide them with relevant advertising. We face competition from:
•
General purpose search engines, such as Yahoo and Microsoft’s Bing.

6
Table of Contents

•
Vertical search engines and e-commerce websites, such as Kayak (travel queries), Monster.com (job queries), WebMD (health queries), and Amazon.com and eBay (e-commerce). Some users will navigate directly to such websites rather than go through Google.
•
Social networks, such as Facebook and Twitter. Some users are relying more on social networks for product or service referrals, rather than seeking information through general purpose search engines.
•
Other forms of advertising, such as television, radio, newspapers, magazines, billboards, and yellow pages, for ad dollars. Our advertisers typically advertise in multiple media, both online and offline.
•
Mobile applications on iPhone and Android devices, which allow users to access information directly from a publisher without using search engines.
•
Providers of online products and services. A number of our online products and services, including Gmail, YouTube, and Google Docs, compete directly with new and established companies, which offer communication, information, and entertainment services integrated into their products or media properties.
We compete to attract and retain users, for whom other products and services are literally one click away, primarily on the basis of the relevance and usefulness of our search results and the features, availability, and ease of use of our products and services.
We also compete to attract and retain content providers (Google Network Members, as well as other content providers for whom we distribute or license content), primarily based on the size and quality of our advertiser base, our ability to help these partners generate revenues from advertising, and the terms of our agreements with them.
Government Regulation
We are subject to numerous domestic and foreign laws and regulations covering a wide variety of subject matter. New laws and regulations (or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations) may also impact our business. The costs of compliance with these laws and regulations are high and are likely to increase in the future and any failure on our part to comply with these laws may subject us to significant liabilities and other penalties.
Culture and Employees
We take great pride in our culture. We embrace collaboration and creativity, and encourage the iteration of ideas to address complex technical challenges. Transparency and open dialog are central to us, and we like to ensure that company news reaches our employees first through internal channels.
Despite our rapid growth, we still cherish our roots as a startup and give employees the freedom to act on their ideas regardless of role or function within the company. We strive to hire the best employees, with backgrounds and perspectives as diverse as our global users. We provide an environment where these talented people can have fulfilling careers working on some of the biggest challenges in technology, and have a huge, positive impact on the world.
At December 31, 2013, we had 47,756 full-time employees, consisting of 18,593 in research and development, 15,348 in sales and marketing, 6,563 in general and administrative, and 7,252 in operations. All of Google’s full-time employees are also equity holders, with significant collective employee ownership. Although we have works councils and statutory employee representation obligations in certain countries, our U.S. employees are not represented by a labor union and we consider our employee relations to be good. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense, particularly for software engineers, computer scientists, and other technical staff.
Global Operations and Geographic Data
We provide our products and services in more than 100 languages and in more than 50 countries, regions, and territories. On www.google.com or one of our other Google domains, users can find information in many different languages and in many different formats. The United States accounted for approximately 45% of our revenues in 2013. Information regarding financial data by geographic areas is set forth in Item 7 and Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Seasonality
Our business is affected by both seasonal fluctuations in internet usage and traditional retail seasonality. Internet usage generally slows during the summer months, and commercial queries typically increase significantly in the fourth quarter of each year. These seasonal trends have caused and will likely continue to cause, fluctuations in our quarterly

7
Table of Contents

results, including fluctuations in sequential revenue growth rates.
Available Information
Our website is located at www.google.com, and our investor relations website is located at http://investor.google.com. The following filings are available through our investor relations website after we file them with the SEC: Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and our Proxy Statements for our annual meetings of stockholders, for the last three years. These filings are also available for download free of charge on our investor relations website. We also provide a link to the section of the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov that has all of our public filings, including Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, all amendments to those reports, our Proxy Statements, and other ownership related filings. Further, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs as part of our investor relations website as well as on our investor relations Google+ page (https://plus.google.com/+GoogleInvestorRelations/posts). Investors and others can receive notifications of new information posted on our investor relations website in real time by signing up for email alerts and RSS feeds. Further corporate governance information, including our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading “Corporate Governance.” The content of our websites are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.
